12-BOUNDARY-VALUE-ANALYSIS/12.1-AGE-ALGORITHM.md, before:

# Boundary Value and Equivalence Partitioning for Age Algorithm

A Developer needs to write a function for converting age (a whole number), into a life period using the following algorithm:

- If age is **ZERO**, it should return **INVALID**;
- If age is **greater than ZERO and less than 16**, the function should return **CHILD**;
- If age is **greater than or equal to 16**, it should return **ADULT**.

Define the optimal (effective and efficient) set of boundary test cases to test the function.

---------
**EXPLANATION**

This question describes a **Boundary value analysis testing technique** - a software testing technique used to identify program defects by focusing on the inputs at the edges of allowable ranges. The idea is that errors are more likely to occur at the boundaries between valid and invalid input values.

The core of BVA is designing test cases that specifically target these boundary values and the values just outside them. This helps identify issues like:

▶️ The program _rejects a valid input_ because it's on the edge of a range.

▶️ The program _does not handle_ unexpected inputs (e.g., negative numbers for age).

▶️ Issues with how the program behaves _when transitioning between partitions_ (e.g., how it handles the value 18 for age).

This technique often comes along with another testing technique called **Equivalence Partitioning**, where you divide the possible input values into groups **(partitions)** where each value within a partition is expected to be treated similarly by the program.

------------

**SOLUTION**

In the question above, we find three partition groups with different boundaries:

| PARTITIONS | BOUNDARY VALUES | CLASSIFICATION |
|---------|-----------|-|
| **PARTITION 01** | 0 (minimum and maximum values) |INVALID |
| **PARTITION 02** | 1 (minimum value), 2 - 14 (middle range), and 15 (maximum value) | CHILD |
| **PARTITION 03** | from 16 (minimum value) on | ADULT |

So below is the **optimal set of boundary test cases** to test the function:

**_TEST CASE 01_**

| AGE | LIFE PERIOD |
|---|----------|
| 0 | INVALID |

**_TEST CASE 02_**

| AGE | LIFE PERIOD |
|---|----------|
| 1 | CHILD |

**_TEST CASE 03_**

| AGE | LIFE PERIOD |
|---|----------|
| 15 | CHILD |

**_TEST CASE 04_**

| AGE | LIFE PERIOD |
|---|----------|
| 16 | ADULT |

------------

Thank you so much for your time! If you think something is missing or would like to correct/add more information, please feel free to submit a pull request.

See you next time!

Commit message:

07.23.2024 | Added a line about specification analysis

12-BOUNDARY-VALUE-ANALYSIS/12.1-AGE-ALGORITHM.md, after:

# Boundary Value and Equivalence Partitioning for Age Algorithm

A Developer needs to write a function for converting age (a whole number), into a life period using the following algorithm:

- If age is **ZERO**, it should return **INVALID**;
- If age is **greater than ZERO and less than 16**, the function should return **CHILD**;
- If age is **greater than or equal to 16**, it should return **ADULT**.

Define the optimal (effective and efficient) set of boundary test cases to test the function.

---------
**EXPLANATION**

This question describes a **Boundary value analysis testing technique** - a software testing technique used to identify program defects by focusing on the inputs at the edges of allowable ranges. The idea is that errors are more likely to occur at the boundaries between valid and invalid input values.

The core of BVA is designing test cases that specifically target these boundary values and the values just outside them. This helps identify issues like:

▶️ The program _rejects a valid input_ because it's on the edge of a range.

▶️ The program _does not handle_ unexpected inputs (e.g., negative numbers for age).

▶️ Issues with how the program behaves _when transitioning between partitions_ (e.g., how it handles the value 18 for age).

This technique often comes along with another testing technique called **Equivalence Partitioning**, where you divide the possible input values into groups **(partitions)** where each value within a partition is expected to be treated similarly by the program.

In addition, this question requires a good understanding of **SPECIFICATION ANALYSIS** - understanding the requirements (specifications) is crucial for designing effective test cases. Here, the specification defines how the age-to-life period conversion function should behave based on different age ranges.
 
------------

**SOLUTION**

In the question above, we find three partition groups with different boundaries:

| PARTITIONS | BOUNDARY VALUES | CLASSIFICATION |
|---------|-----------|-|
| **PARTITION 01** | 0 (minimum and maximum values) |INVALID |
| **PARTITION 02** | 1 (minimum value), 2 - 14 (middle range), and 15 (maximum value) | CHILD |
| **PARTITION 03** | from 16 (minimum value) on | ADULT |

So below is the **optimal set of boundary test cases** to test the function:

**_TEST CASE 01_**

| AGE | LIFE PERIOD |
|---|----------|
| 0 | INVALID |

**_TEST CASE 02_**

| AGE | LIFE PERIOD |
|---|----------|
| 1 | CHILD |

**_TEST CASE 03_**

| AGE | LIFE PERIOD |
|---|----------|
| 15 | CHILD |

**_TEST CASE 04_**

| AGE | LIFE PERIOD |
|---|----------|
| 16 | ADULT |

------------

Thank you so much for your time! If you think something is missing or would like to correct/add more information, please feel free to submit a pull request.

See you next time!
